{"Id":"1101162413930","Title":"Alderwood to probe voting machines","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/16/2004","Content":"Republicans in Alderwood joined Democrats yesterday in criticizing the performance of the city's costly new high-tech voting system, saying that it may have disenfranchised voters in the Nov. 4 election. The Republican commission scolded the city board of elections for minimizing problems with the touch-screen machines that the city purchased this year for 1.5 million and asked Mayor Rex Luthor to investigate what went wrong before the machines are pressed into service again. Alderwood's touch-screen voting machines, which resemble laptop computers without keyboards, were supposed to simplify voting and tabulating results. But in a debut that mirrored many of the problems experienced last year in areas across the country, some voters found the machines confusing, and the reporting of vote tallies was delayed almost a day. Luthor responded that he would try to address the board's concerns. He said he has called for a public meeting of the three-member board of elections to go over the requests at 5 p.m. today. \"I pledge that I will answer every question as soon as I possibly can in the proper fashion,\" he said."}
{"Id":"1101162433811","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/10/2004","Content":"1-Column Councilman promises sound fiscal decisions As a member of the Alderwood City Council, I listened intently Monday night as many citizens stepped up to the podium and made it clear that they are against privatization. A few of those individuals made very poignant arguments, however, the fact of the matter is this, for every city that has had a bad experience with privatization, there is another that has had a good experience. Now, I am not saying that I am either for or against privatization. What I am saying is that the citizens of Alderwood elected me to be their watchdog, to make sure that I make sound fiscal decisions when it comes to using the city's money. In order to do this, I need to be able to look at all aspects of the city's budget. This includes possible privatization. Good citizens of Alderwood, I will promise you this, whether or not I vote in favor of privatization, I will never vote for less quality or poorer standards regardless of the cost. /s/ John Sarducci, City Councilman, Alderwood Untruths about teachers don t help fix schools I have had the privilege of getting to know John Panni over the past couple of years in the capacity as a tennis and basketball coach. He does a great job covering our local teams and I find him very likable on a personal level. I was, however, disappointed at some of the things he said in his personal column titled \"Election night headache\" (11-3-04). I also voted against I-884 because I don't think throwing more money at the education problem is the answer. I would like to see the education system use existing money more effectively. In that sense I agree with Mr. Panni. However, Mr. Panni's discussion of teachers wanting more pay is very off base. He notes that teachers \"work a six-hour day, only work 180 days out of each year, and get to work with children.\" One part of that statement is true, we do get to work with children. This can be a great joy, but it can also be a tremendous struggle to have 150 kids that you are responsible for on multiple levels. As a teacher, I take issue with Mr. Panni's comments regarding teacher work hours. The contract for teachers in Alderwood requires that we be at work from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily. If my math is correct, that's seven and a half hours a day, not six. I don't know very many teachers who keep that schedule. Mr. Panni might want to look at the sign-in sheet at the high school, or others for that matter, so he can see the hours that teachers come in to do work for which they are not paid. As a teacher, a 50-hour work week is not uncommon. I have had many full time jobs in my life. Teaching is the most time consuming, mentally taxing and rewarding job of them all! When I got into this profession, money was not a deciding factor. I wanted to have time in the summer to spend with my family. What a dream that was! Not only is my summer taken up with preparing for the next school year, I am required by the state (at my expense) to increase my education. When do you think that is done? So why is there a teaching shortage in many parts of this country? The way Mr. Panni described it, you'd think everyone would want to teach. So, here is an open invitation. If being a teacher, advisor and mentor to 150 students daily on a 30,000 a year salary appeals to you, then this is a great job. Oh, you have to use your summers to continue your education on your dime (about 10,000 for me so far in my fourth year). I love my job and wouldn't trade it for any career. I chose it over law school because of my passion for it. It's just frustrating to read misconceptions like John Panni's, because teachers give their all to a system that has rules that they must live under. Fixing the system should be a priority, but promoting untruths about a teacher's job doesn't help. /s/ Troy Whittle, Alderwood High School social studies teacher Don t destroyour rec programs I was dismayed to hear that the city manager plans to eliminate the position of parks and recreation manager and divide the responsibilities of that job between the park supervisor and the secretary of the parks and recreation department. Do you believe these two individuals can handle their own duties, plus supervise the community center, museum, senior center, swimming pool, organize the children's soccer and baseball teams and organize the special craft and recreation programs for adults? As an example of one event, last year I volunteered to help with the summer track meet. There were 300 participants. This event was held on a Saturday. Would the parks and recreation secretary or park supervisor be able to organize and run all of these track events and also do their regular duties? The parks and recreation manager is responsible for the swimming pool programs, events at the senior center and the management of the sports leagues by assigning fields and organizing games. Will the department secretary and park supervisor be able to know what strokes should be taught in the different classifications of swimming classes? Besides their regular duties, will they be able to check on all the sports leagues and their field assignments and organize the league? Will they be present at the senior citizens casino night and participate as dealers? The citizens of Alderwood deserve a well organized recreational program that meets the needs of all ages. These activities provide outlets to many who would otherwise not have these advantages. When these programs decline, we will have more juvenile problems and associated negative behaviors. Please join me in opposing the decision of the city manager to destroy our progressive recreational program for all people in the city of Alderwood. /s/ Dorothy L. Aiken, Alderwood Steve Evanswill be missed The City of Alderwood will certainly miss Mr. Steve Evans, a long-time member of the police force. My family and I had the pleasure of meeting Steve when he came to St. Joseph's Hospital here in Tacoma to witness the birth of his first grandchild, Coven M. Evans Olivas. During his visit he spoke often of \"his town\" with great pride. He exhibited to the community he loved the same caring that he showed his oldest daughter during the difficult birth. His strength, kindness and love helped us all, and we join the City of Alderwood in their fond farewell. We will all miss him very much. /s/ Rosalinda and Ron Olivas, Tacoma Gubernatorial candidate offers thanks to voters Although the governor's race isn't yet decided, I want to take this opportunity to thank the readers of the Alderwood Daily News for their involvement in the democratic process, whether or not they voted for me. It was a long campaign, and I truly enjoyed getting to know the people of Washington. I also want to express my good wishes to Christine Gregoire and her family. No matter what the outcome of this race, I feel blessed to have had this wonderful experience. If I do win, I'll start putting in place my Forward Washington agenda to get our economy going again and help get people back to work. If I don't, I'll consider it one of the greatest honors of my life to have had the opportunity to run for our state's highest office. /s/ Dino Rossi Blood drawing very successful Sponsored by the Nouvella Club with Rita Blunk as chairperson, we had a very successful blood drawing on Nov. 2. The quota was 70 units. We had 87 presenters and three first-time donors. Ten were unable to give, leaving 77 units collected. Because of their efforts, 231 people will have another chance at life. Many thanks to the sponsors for donating the cookies and juice, the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Bob Story for the great publicity in the Alderwood Daily News and Max of Washington Corrugators for displaying the banner at Centennial Square. I would like to thank the following volunteers: Ella Mae Lochner, Myrtis Lang, Alice Benedetti, Phyllis Morris, Trude Meadowcroft, Letha Grubb, Lu Ann Roach, Nita Coleman, Lila Furukawa and Ruth Stark. A very special thank you to the donors, who are the lifeline for the flow of blood in the Valley. We hope to see you at the next blood drawing on Jan. 4, at the United Methodist Church in Alderwood from 1 to 6 p.m. /s/ Marie Handy, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101162452170","Title":"New heroes, vets honored by students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/10/2004","Content":"GRANGER - Toughened by memories of violence, military veterans living in the Granger community were visibly moved by the sound of more than 300 youngsters reciting the \"Pledge of Allegiance\" during a school assembly held yesterday (Tuesday) at Roosevelt Elementary School. \"I don't think there is anything sweeter than the sound of children saying the \"Pledge\" or singing patriotic songs,\" said Bill Russell, a Vietnam war veteran and long-time Granger resident. Russell, along with fellow VFW members Lyle Bergstrom and Dave Rodriguez, was on hand for the school's Veteran's Day ceremony. The men, who served as a color guard for the children's assembly, were later presented with certificates of appreciation from the students. The children also presented tokens of their respect and appreciation to a number of other Granger residents who served their nation in past wars. But the veterans weren't the only heroes honored during the assembly. A group of Granger High School girls were also singled out for their selfless deeds. \"The girls voluntarily cut their hair in order to provide human hair wigs for cancer patients suffering hair loss,\" said Janet Wheaton, Roosevelt Elementary School principal. Wheaton introduced the young women, who each allowed more than 10 inches of their hair to be sacrificed for the Florida-based charity. The girls, all members of the Granger High School Young Authors Club, decided to cut their hair at the suggestion of Emma Rice, whose grandmother died of cancer. \"We celebrate these girls and our veterans for all of their humanitarian acts,\" Wheaton said"}
{"Id":"1101162452451","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/10/2004","Content":"ESTHER M ESTHER M. BOWEN Esther Martha Bowen, 107, of Seattle died Monday, Nov. 8, 2004. She was born April 6, 1897 in Louisville, Ky. She lived in Alderwood from 1917 to 1945. She married Dr. John H. Schutz, who died in 1966. In 1970, she married Maurice Bowen of Alderwood. She is survived by her daughter, Phyllis Warmington of Seattle; son-in-law, Dr. William Warmington; and two granddaughters, Flynn Warmington of Somerville, Maine, and Joan Warmington of Kirkland; and many nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her husbands, Dr. John H. Schutz, and Maurice Bowen, in 1978; and her seven siblings. No services are planned. In memory of Mrs. Bowen memorials may be made to the American Red Cross. Evergreen Washelli is in charge of arrangements, Seattle. JESUS Martinez Jesus Martinez, 18, of Mabton died Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He was born Sept. 11, 1986 in Los Angeles, Calif., the son of Celia (Lujan) and Jose Ignacio Garica. He attended grade school in Mabton and was currently a senior at Mabton High School. He is survived by his parents, Celia and Jose Ignacio Martinez of Mabton; three sisters, Veronica Torres and husband, Lucio, and Patricia Martinez, all of Mabton, and Juana Moreno and husband, Miguel; three brothers, Jose Ignacio Martinez and Jose Luis Martinez, both of Mabton, and Jorge Martinez of Prosser; and grandmother, Raquel Martinez of Mexico. He was preceded in death by his grandfathers, Luis Martinez and Jose Lujan. Visitation will be held Thursday, Nov. 11, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with recitation of the Holy Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, Nov. 12, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, Grandview. Burial will be held at Mabton Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. GERONIMO H. PINA Geronimo H. Pi a Sr., 70, of Grandview passed away Sunday, Nov. 7, 2004, at Yakima Regional Hospital in Yakima He was born May 6, 1934 in Weslaco, Texas to Manuel and Juanita Pi a. On July 13, 1952 he married Concepcion Mendez in Mercedes, Texas, making their home in Weslaco. In 1956, they moved to Grandview and later to Prosser, where he worked as a foreman for A and B Hops Inc. for 47 years until retiring. He is survived by his devoted wife of 52 years, Concepcion Pi a; eight sons, Juan and Felipa Pi a, Geronimo Pi a Jr., Oscar and Sylvia Pi a, Humberto and Felicia Pi a, Samuel and Elissa Pi a, Josue and Joella Pi a, Noel and Sherry Pi a, and Juan Jr. and Violeta Pi a; one daughter, San Juanita Pi a; 22 grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren; two sisters, Ciria Tijerina and Dominga Garza; and two brothers, Gregorio Pi a and Livorio Pi a, all of Weslaco. Geronimo enjoyed baseball (Seattle Mariners) and football (The Dallas Cowboys), fishing, playing pool and spending time with family and friends. He also coached his sons in baseball, and had a baseball team called The Prosser Astros and loved watching them participate in all sports. He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Manuel Pi a Jr. and Claudio Pi a; one sister, Margarita Barron; and one son, Joel Pi a. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, Nov. 11, 2004, from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Graveside funeral services will be held Friday, Nov. 12, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at East Prosser Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101162452686","Title":"Alderwood pharmacist earns Doctorate degree","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/9/2004","Content":"Working full time and studying for the past four years has resulted in Thuha \"Bac\" Nguyen earning the right to add doctor to his name. But the title doesn't mean he will be seeing patients as a physician, he explains. \"I do, however, have a very extensive knowledge of drug therapy and will be of service to doctors and their patients in helping to monitor their medications,\" he explained. Nguyen, who has worked in the Alderwood Community Hospital pharmacy since 1996, recently earned his Doctorate of pharmacy from Idaho State University. He completed the two-year doctorate program over the course of four years, working as a part-time student while maintaining his job working with fellow hospital pharmacist Arie Van Wingerden of Alderwood. Nguyen, who came to America in 1987 from Vietnam, earned his pharmacy degree from St. John's University in New York State, before moving to the West Coast. Nguyen said since coming to America he has worked to be of value in society. \"It is the most important thing to me,\" he said. \"I took the opportunity to pursue an education so I could be of value to others,\" he said. In order to earn his doctorate, Nguyen had to take training, known as clerkships, outside of the classroom in six-week intervals. As a doctor of pharmacy, he doesn't actually prescribe medications to patients, but serves as a resource for physicians and hospital staff. With the additional training, Nguyen said he is now more qualified to aid physicians with drug therapy and drug monitoring. He said living in the Lower Valley suits his lifestyle. A Grandview resident, Nguyen said he worked in Seattle for about six months at a Payless pharmacy. \"I didn't like living in the city,\" he said. \"I wanted to work in a hospital in a rural setting. This area and the hospital setting suits me,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162452967","Title":"Clown classes begin in Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/9/2004","Content":"Part of the next generation of clowns attended the first of several classes last night to learn the basics and secrets of how to become a clown. Monday night at the Alderwood Beauty Academy, Arlo Waggoner, who is also known to many as Waldo the Clown, started the class by showing the students a video by the Ringling Brother's Barnum and Bailey Clown College. The video covered the basics of what the students will be learning over the next several weeks as they delve into the clowning world. A form of entertainment that has been around for more than a thousand years, clowns were once known as court jesters. Waggoner said the first step is to learn how to move like a clown. While most people walk and move smoothly, clowns exaggerate their movements, which is important so that people know exactly how they are feeling. Although they will have time to practice later, the students also learned the basics of juggling, which includes starting out with something like a light handkerchief, which will fall slowly. Waggoner said as that becomes easier, begin trying with soft bean bags, which won't roll away if dropped. \"The bottom line is practice,\" said Waggoner. Last night's video also showed the basics of balloon art, clown gags and skits and designing costumes. The students also learned there are three different kinds of clown make-up faces, the white faced clowns, which are the more reserved clowns. Auguste clowns, which have both white and flesh tones, are the roust-abouts and trouble makers, said Waggoner. The third type of clown is the tramp or character clown. Clothes are determined by what kind of clown a person chooses to be. Waggoner said that if his students choose to be a tramp or character clown he wants them to dress nicely instead of in old rags. The key to developing a face and costume is to exaggerate already existing physical characteristics, such as height, length of face and girth. When developing a clown face, the basic circus colors used are red, black, white and blue. Clowns use color on their lower lip only and smiles are generally smaller, not the big scary smiles often created by inexperienced clowns, said Waggoner. Using baby powder, clowns set their make-up so it doesn't run. \"We use plain old baby powder as long as it doesn't have cornstarch in it,\" said Waggoner, adding that they brush off excess powder with a brush. \"After I get my make-up on I can go swimming and it won't come off,\" said Waggoner. The next class will be held Monday, Nov. 15, at the Alderwood Beauty Academy. They will be going over make-up at the next class. Waggoner said it's not too late to sign up for the free classes. The class is open to all ages"}
{"Id":"1101162453186","Title":"Hefty increase in Alderwood property tax rate OK'd","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/9/2004","Content":"Years of not raising property taxes has finally caught up with the City of Alderwood. In a 4-3 vote during Monday night's meeting, City Council members approved raising the 2005 property tax by 42 per thousand of assessed property value from the current rate. The new property tax for Alderwood residents will be 3.1334 per 1,000 of assessed property value, up from the 2004 rate of 2.71 per 1,000 of assessed property value. The approved property tax increase will raise an additional 195,556 for city coffers. The city will raise an additional 625,970 in General Obligation Bonds. The payments on the bonds are being made from when the city refinanced together the Law and Justice Center and the pool measures voters approved. Council was split on the matter, with Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway and Councilmen Tom Seeger and John Torch wanting to scale back the property tax increase to 3 per 1,000 of assessed property value. Mayor Rex Luthor, Councilwoman Jennie Angel and Councilmen Jim Sarducci and Raul Martinez took the collective stance that the city needs to do something to raise money to prevent further reductions in city services. But not everyone agreed with the thoughts of Council Monday night. Alderwood resident Bob Johnson said he felt Council should stick to past practices of not raising taxes. Johnson said that with the cost of living and water and sewer rates continually increasing, now is not the time to burden residents with an extra tax. Johnson told Council it will probably be seeing a lot of vacant homes in Alderwood if property taxes are raised. Carol Stone expressed concerns that Council was raising property taxes to pay for the 2.2 million purchase of Monson feedlot. Stone also said she didn't want to see property taxes raised because she felt it might encourage the city to spend additional money for items not needed. Bruce Epps scolded Council for what he perceived as a mismanagement of the city's budget. Epps said because Council hadn't raised property taxes in a number of years that it backed itself into a corner, where it had no choice but to do so Monday night. \"You have mismanaged the budget. You have overspent,\" said Epps. \"If you had done your jobs along the way, you probably wouldn't be at this point.\" Angel sided with some of the concerns expressed by residents, but felt the city had no choice but to raise property taxes. Angel said that when the city is dealing with a budget the size Alderwood has, Council has to make some tough decisions. \"We are at the point where we have to do something,\" said Angel. Luthor agreed with Angel, saying that if Council didn't approve the property tax increase the city would be faced with having to make more cuts to balance the 2005 budget. The mayor also explained the city receives minimal dollars from the property tax, with the county receiving a majority of the money. Torch said he wasn't in favor of property tax increases, but said there is a need to raise rates. Torch, though, said he would like to see the Council go back to 1998 rates of 3 per 1,000 of assessed property value for the property tax. Torch said he felt the city could \"hold the line\" and manage best what it has with his proposed rate. Martinez said he was approached by residents over the weekend who were concerned with the personnel cuts proposed for 2005. But, Martinez said he saw the need to raise property taxes to help pay for needed city services. \"We do have to provide the basic services to our community,\" said Martinez. Farmer agreed with Torch about his thoughts on taxes, saying he would also like to see the 3 rate. The mayor pro-tem said he felt the city has to do something to raise money to prevent further service cuts. He said Alderwood residents have been lucky for the past several years with seeing no property tax increases, while other communities haven't been as fortunate. He said the city has also taken money out of reserves to pay for mistakes that have been made by the county so as not to burden the local taxpayers. Farmer said he believes the city could be creative with how it uses city funds after receiving the money from the 3/10 of 1 percent sales tax county voters recently approved for law and justice services to address some budget matters. Seeger was quick to point out that the Monson feedlot purchase has nothing to do with the budget. Seeger said the money spent for the purchase of the Monson feedlot will be replenished as soon as the property is sold. Seeger was also in favor of raising property taxes to the 3 rate. He said he feels the city has been doing fine with providing services, citing what the fire department has been doing without having two staff members available"}
{"Id":"1101162453420","Title":"Ramirez brothers return from Iraq","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/8/2004","Content":"GRANDVIEW - The home of Eva Martinez was festive this past Saturday night as she welcomed her sons home from Iraq. A tearful homecoming with family began about 4 p.m. when her sons arrived at her Grandview home. It had been a year since Martinez saw her oldest son, Sgt. Ismael Ramirez, 25, and six months since Specialist Job Ramirez, 24, had visited home, according to the brothers' sister, Socorro Ramirez. The brothers signed up for the Army two weeks apart. \"I kind of always wanted to be in the Army,\" said Job Ramirez, who was first to enlist. \"I was going to Eastern and after I stopped going to school I came home.\" A short time later he decided to sign up for a military tour. Scheduled to be released this coming spring, he recently re-enlisted. Ismael was attending law school at Willamette University when he decided to enlist in the Army. \"I realized I didn't want to be a lawyer,\" said the Washington State University graduate. \"You play with GI Joe's when you're little and you want to be in the Army,\" said Ismael. I also needed a way to pay off student loans.\" Both men are stationed out of Ft. June and recently returned from Iraq. Job has been in the states about a week and Ismael about four days. The Ramirez brothers each received a four-day weekend and decided to visit their mother and other family in the Lower Valley. They will be taking block leave in December, which will give them a month off. The two brothers are in the same Striker Brigade combination team, the 3rd Brigade of the Second Infantry Division. Both work in supply and were actually at the same camp in Iraq for a while before Ismael was promoted and moved about 50 kilometers away. \"Iraq is colder and rainier than everybody thinks it is,\" said Ismael, who added that they had two days of snow before he left Iraq. Stationed in the city of Mosul, which is a huge sprawling city, he said that although they are trained to work in supply, they, like other military personnel, had duties that aren't typical of supply officers. They often go on convoys into the city. \"All the cooks are guarding gates,\" said Ismael. Being in Mosul for a year, Ismael has seen differences made in the services to the military personnel, as well as the citizens of the city. He said the first three months they were there it was difficult without some of the amenities now offered, such as Internet cafes. Ismael has also seen improvements in city sanitation and sewage treatment because of work done by the U.S. military. He added that schools are also up and running again. Job believes the most important thing he's done since arriving in Iraq is what directly influences his unit. Returning home, the brothers came to the Valley to be surrounded by family and friends, whom they haven't seen in a while. Ismael came back to the states to his wife, whom he lives with in Renton. \"Once we're back it's like a regular day job,\" said Ismael. \"This is like a family reunion,\" said Socorro Ramirez. \"We were last together a year ago last July when my brother (Ismael) got married.\" One of her biggest fears is that now that her brother, Job, has re-enlisted, he will be required to go back to Iraq, although he believes he will have some time home before returning there"}
{"Id":"1101162453655","Title":"Alderwood's Promise in need of reading volunteers","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/8/2004","Content":"Alderwood's Promise \"Promise to Read\" program is in need of volunteers to spend about 30 minutes a week reading with children in the local community. To volunteer for the program, pick up a volunteer application at the Office of Teaching and Learning at 800 E. Custer Ave. or call 836-8401. Alderwood's Promise is also in search of volunteers to serve as reading mentors for students in the Class of 2012, which are currently fifth graders. Volunteers will wok with students on their reading skills by listening to them and helping them read. Those who volunteer will receive training and will be placed in the school district. Mentors can volunteer their time daily, once a week or once a month, whichever fits their schedule. For more information about volunteering as a reading mentor contact Alderwood's Promise at 836-8417 or 836-8401"}
{"Id":"1101162453889","Title":"Grape society trade show this week","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/8/2004","Content":"GRANDVIEW - The two-day Washington State Grape Society trade show will be held this Thursday and Friday, Nov. 11-12, at the Grandview Church of the Nazarene, 500 N. Elm St., Grandview. Dr. Robert Wample, director of viticulture and enology at California State University, Fresno, Calif., will be speaking on what's happening in the wine and grape industries at 1:15 p.m., Thursday. Other speakers from Washington State University and the extension service will be discussing the current and future grape market trends, new cost studies on wine grapes and they will be taking comments on new mechanical pruning methods. Friday there will be speakers discussing improving biological pest controls, pesticide updates, and organic grape production. Controlling bunch rod and nematodes will also be discussed. For more information about the annual meeting and trade show contact Deb Heintz, (509) 786-7888"}
{"Id":"1101162454123","Title":"Mabton grid team in 'B' State playoffs","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/8/2004","Content":"ENTIAT - Last Friday's dominating 35-7 victory over Entiat earned the Mabton High School football team a berth in this year's 'B' State playoffs. Mabton, which lost its first two league games of the season but bounced back to win six straight in conference play, will open the postseason against the Lind-Ritzville Broncos. The Vikings' first round State playoff opponent won the Northeast 'B' League with a perfect 9-0 record. Mabton (6-2, 7-3) enters the State playoffs as the No. 3 seed out of the Central Washington 'B' League. Mabton Coach D.J. Search said the site and date of his team's first round playoff game against Ritzville is not yet decided. He and the Ritzville coach have already swapped game films. Search said he is optimistic his club can give the Broncos a stiff challenge. \"They're not a bad team,\" Search said of the unbeaten Broncos. \"Speed wise, I think we match up pretty well with them. But I think we're going to be more physical than them.\" In knocking off Entiat last Friday, Mabton showed it is a team that is ready for the postseason. The Vikings not only ran the ball effectively, they also weren't afraid to put it up in the air. Mabton QB Ryan Harris completed 11-of-21 passes against Entiat, serving up only one interception while throwing for 174 yards. \"Those aren't bad numbers for high school football,\" said Search. \"Ryan is making good decisions on the field. He's progressively gotten better as the season has gone along,\" Search said. Harris' targets last Friday included Moises Gutierrez, who hauled in five passes for 77 yards. Gutierrez and Pablo Sanchez, who caught two passes for 32 yards and also rushed for 60 yards on 13 carries, each caught a touchdown pass from Harris. On the ground, Mabton tallied 309 yards against Entiat. Junior Ray Elizondo was the workhorse for the Vikes, taking 20 hand-offs from Harris and picking up a season best 167 yards. \"It was Ray's biggest game of the season,\" said Search, explaining that Entiat didn't adjust to Mabton's dives up the middle. \"So we just kept feeding the ball to Ray,\" he said. The reason Elizondo had so much room in the middle to run, said Search, was because of the play of the Vikes' offensive line. \"Our O-line did a great job of taking care of business,\" Search said. \"They played very hard.\" Mabton opened the scoring last Friday on a 5-yard TD pass from Harris to Sanchez in the first quarter. The Vikings increased their lead to 14-0 in the second period, on a 16-yard touchdown run by Alex Zavala, who carried the ball 11 times Friday night, tallying 59 yards in the process. After Entiat picked off a Harris pass, at Mabton's 22-yard line, the home team notched its only score of the night to draw to within 14-7. Mabton ended any suspense that might have been left, though, when the Vikings punched in a couple of TD's in the third quarter. Zavala and Sanchez scored on runs of 4 and 2 yards, respectively. Gutierrez's five-yard touchdown catch in the final quarter accounted for the final 35-7 score. Defensively, Search said his Vikes turned in another splendid performance. \"Other than Entiat's opening drive, when they got to our 4-yard line, and the one drive after they intercepted our quarterback, they never really challenged us again,\" said Search"}
{"Id":"1101162454389","Title":"Pioneers end G'view's season","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/8/2004","Content":"OMAK - Omak's power-I offense proved to be too much to overcome for the Grandview High School football team last Friday night. The Pioneers claimed a 28-12 opening round District win over Grandview to earn the right to move on to the State playoffs. The Greyhounds (3-3, 3-6) saw their season come to a close. Grandview was poised several times to take the early lead on the Pioneers' home field, but three first quarter stops by Omak after the 'Hounds had driven the ball deep into Pioneer territory thwarted any such hopes. First year Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb said his club had three red zone scoring opportunities in the opening period. \"But on two of them we had dropped passes in crucial situations, and with the other we had a penalty that backed us up.\" Omak also snuffed a couple of other Grandview drives in the first half when the Pioneers came up with a pair of interceptions. The 'Hounds were forced into playing catch-up football after Omak posted three touchdowns in the second quarter. Two of the TD's came on passes, from Pioneer QB Cody Campbell to Brenden Kaermingk. \"They had us down 21-0 at the half,\" said Lamb. Neither club could muster much of anything in the third quarter. But in the final period of play, Grandview made a run at the Pioneers. The Greyhounds finally got on the scoreboard when their quarterback, Brandon Artz, hit running back Silas Hansen with a 24-yard scoring strike. Artz followed up the TD with another touchdown toss to James Vela, the second one a 22-yarder. The Artz to Vela hook-up cut Omak's lead to 21-12. The Pioneers didn't allow Grandview to get any closer, though. Omak put an insurance touchdown on the scoreboard to account for the final 28-12 score. The Greyhounds put up some decent numbers on offense, despite being limited to two touchdowns on the night. Rushing-wise, Grandview tallied 88 yards. Hansen got most of the yardage, gaining 63 yards on 17 carries. Frank Medina toted the ball six times and picked up 17 yards for Grandview, with James Vela totaling eight yards on three carries. Through the air, Artz was 19-for-35 for 176 yards. Vela grabbed 10 of Artz's passes and picked up 93 yards on the receptions. Hansen had three catches for 54 yards, with Kevin Concienne gaining 25 yards on four receptions and Medina hauling in two passes for four yards. The Pioneers tallied just over 350 total yards on the offensive side of the ball. In assessing his first year as coach of the 'Hounds, Lamb said he is pleased with how Grandview fared this season. \"We were in every game, with the exception of the East Valley and Othello contests,\" Lamb said. \"For our seniors, it was their second straight appearance in the District playoffs. \"I compliment our seniors for a good season, especially with having to learn new stuff this year. \"And, we played a lot of younger kids this season. By no means is our cubboard bare,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162468686","Title":"Jr. Indelook Club to hear about life in Argentina","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/5/2004","Content":"Members of the Jr. Indelook Club will have a chance to hear about life in Argentina when they get together for their next meeting, set to take place Wednesday, Nov. 10, at the home of Marjorie Cullen. Mary Cocciaro, an exchange student from Argentina, will serve as the guest speaker during the event, which will be co-hosted by Phyllis Bruhn. The program chair for the meeting is Pat Barr. This month, members will also begin to prepare for the holiday season. Club members are asked to bring a copy of their favorite holiday recipe to share with the group during roll call"}